Permalink
Switch branches/tags
Nothing to show
Find file Copy path
Fetching contributors…
Cannot retrieve contributors at this time
1513 lines (1109 sloc) 61.9 KB

RGSoC Team Popcorn - Log

Table of contents

Day Focus Day Focus
Day 1 Challenge begins! Los Gehts! Day 2 Awesome Blue Chocolate Ice-cream Popcorn
Day 3 Happy Green Pizza Popcorn Day 4 Sour Purple Banana Popcorn
Day 5 Smart Blue Chocolate Popcorn Agile Meeting 1 Agile Meeeting #1
Day 6 Clear Gold Franzbrötchen Popcorn Day 7 Orange Moroccan Couscous Popcorn
Day 8 Surf-green, Smiley Pancakes Day 9 Spacey Green Apple Popcorn
Day 10 Playful Yellow Hummus Popcorn Agile Meeting 2 Agile Meeeting #2
Day 11 Popcorn picante verde patatas bravas Day 12 Das aufregende türkise Kaiserschmarrenpopcorn
Day 13 Das schönes gelben Schnitzelpopcorn Day 14 Popcorn caramel rouge confit
Day 15 Pipoca brincalhona de Paçoca Amarela Agile Meeting 3 Agile Meeeting #3
Day 16 Tired Grey Croissant Popcorn Day 17 Warm Grey Pizza Popcorn
Day 18 Nice Grey Pizza Popcorn Day 19 Warm Grey Tea Popcorn
Day 20 Inspired Blue Beetroot Popcorn Agile Meeting 4 Agile Meeeting #4
Day 21 Determined #F37572 Pink Grapefruit Popcorn Day 22 Thankful #0082C9 Kumquat Popcorn
Day 23 Happy #333333 Bergamont Popcorn Day 24 Satisfied #E20074 Lemon Popcorn
Day 25 Relaxed #CC0000 Clementine Popcorn Agile Meeting 5 Agile Meeeting #5
Day 26 Königsblau Reggae-Feverish Watermelon Popcorn Day 27 Disgusting Light Blue Watermelon Popcorn
Day 28 Brain-Melting Royal Slushi Popcorn Day 29 Sweaty Cornflower Ice-Cream Popcorn
Day 30 Celest Crashing Aperolspritz Popcorn Day 31 Rugby playing Brown Burger Popcorn
Day 32 Climbing Brown Ice Cream Popcorn Day 33 Curling Green-brown Chicken wings Popcorn
Day 34 Blue Basketball playing Falafel Popcorn Agile Meeting 6 Agile Meeeting #6
Day 35 Flaming Pink Spaghetti Popcorn Day 36 Inspirational Yellow Pizza Popcorn
Day 37 Memorable Blue Chai Popcorn Day 38 Productive Orange Java Popcorn
Day 39 Lemon Chiffon erratic Cookie Dough Popcorn Agile Meeting 7 Agile Meeting #7
Day 40 Dark Goldenrod unwieldy Banana Popcorn Day 41 Deep Sky Blue Tranquil M&M's Popcorn
Day 42 Unbecoming Navy Chocolate Chip Popcorn Day 43 Lime Green glamorous Praline Pecan Popcorn
Agile Meeting 8 Agile Meeeting #8 Day 44 Revolutionary Blue Pizza Popcorn
Day 45 Peach Sunny Salad Popcorn Day 46 Amazing Yellow Ice-Cream Popcorn
Day 47 Exciting PyLadies-Red Weetabix Popcorn Day 48 Extreme Blue Guava Popcorn
Day 49 Blue expressive Pineapple Popcorn Agile Meeting 9 Agile Meeeting #9
Day 50 Red hot Curry Popcorn Day 51 Blue beautiful Chicken Popcorn
Day 52 Blue jovial Pizza Popcorn Day 53 Green moist eggs Popcorn
Day 54 Stubborn Yellow Tiramisu Popcorn Agile Meeting 10 Agile Meeeting #10
Day 55 Primeval Turquoise Pasta Popcorn Day 56 Delicious Turquoise Hummus Popcorn
Day 57 Green Sweet and Sour Pineapple Popcorn Day 58 Harmonious Indigo Pomegranate Popcorn
Day 59 Majestic Magenta Mooncake Popcorn Agile Meeting 11 Agile Meeeting #11
Day 60 Boisterous Brown Bagel Popcorn Day 61 Lustrous Lavender Lemonade Popcorn
Day 62 Clear Camel Cookies Popcorn Day 63 Vivacious Kinetic Violet Ketchup Popcorn

Mission complete! (*thoughts & future plans)

Day 1: July 2, 2018

Today's Progress: After a warm welcome from coaching company ABSOLVENTA and coach Kaja, we did the following tasks:

  • set up our new working environments
  • starting installing the Nextcloud development environment on our new machines
  • set up communication channels
  • set up a team calendar
  • meeting with project lead for Nextcloud Contacts App to discuss our involvement
  • joined the Kick off event call

We also had a visit from one of our coaches Markus at our coaching company.

Thoughts: A very exciting start to the SoC!


Back to Top

Day 2: July 3, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • completed the setup of development environment
  • looked at Vue
  • made notes for our blog post
  • went over with our coach Lora our plan, set up , and involvement
  • lined up our first issues to tackle and added them to our github project

Thoughts:

We are starting to feel more settled in to our routine and looking forward to getting fully immersed in coding!

Link: https://github.com/orgs/nextcloud/projects/11


Back to Top

Day 3: July 4, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • started working through various Vue tutorials
  • made notes for our blog post
  • went over with our coach Markus our plan, set up , and involvement as well as some git basics
  • had our first weekly meeting with our supervisor

Thoughts:

Feeling a bit overwhelmed with balancing administrative tasks and coding as well as learning a whole new framework (Vue).


Back to Top

Day 4: July 5, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Ru Paul quotes app built with Vue
  • more for the blog post...
  • tweaking our work environment (particularly figuring out how to work with new keyboards)
  • continuing with Vue tutorials

Thoughts:

Our coaches were remote today but it was great spending quality time with each other :)

Links:

https://github.com/team-popcorn/RuPaul-Quote-App


Back to Top

Day 5: July 6, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • formatting of the blog post
  • final edits of the blog post
  • went over with our coach Camila our plan, set up , and involvement
  • continuing with Vue tutorials
  • fixing the fabulous RuPaul app picture

Thoughts:

Great week, hard to believe it's already been five days and looking forward to doing it again on Monday!

Links:

https://www.vuemastery.com/courses/intro-to-vue-js/computed-properties


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 1: July 10, 2018

What we did this week:

  • Set up environment & tools
  • went through set up and project with all coaches
  • kickoff call
  • met our supervisor
  • wrote first blog post and pushed to repo, made pr request
  • spent time learning Vue.js

What was good

  • getting set up
  • Vue tutorial
  • seeing the code
  • organisation set up

What was not so good

  • lacked structure & targets
  • not enough programming
  • each day felt like a new start

Blockers

  • not knowing Vue
  • Issue #106 branch on Jessica's machine here and at home looking different (Camila will help)

Coaches feedback*

  • Missing co-ordination between coaches
  • Many coaches with different background
  • Don’t want to over explain what we need - coaches should read our updates :)

*solutions

  • email to all coaches - where are updates available
  • ping them in issue Camila created for structuring Agile Invite all coaches for Monday Meeting. make later feedback coaches add notes (bullet points) to gihub repo log

What we will do next week*

  • Meet with Bart and get update on progress for porting to Vue.js
  • Start other issues already on the contacts app:
    • #106 - Jessica has started - see above
    • #130 - social media fields - requested more information
    • #333 - when deleting contact no contact shown
    • Ask Bart what current repo issues would be most important to look at.
  • Plan to structure time better:
    • time alone - spend on vue.js
    • time together - work on issues
    • look at issue together, discuss how to solve issue, then move forward together

Link(s) to work/ commits/ PRs: RuPaul Quote machine code: https://github.com/team-popcorn/RuPaul-Quote-App On Github Pages: https://team-popcorn.github.io/RuPaul-Quote-App/#/


Back to Top

Day 6: July 9, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • working on a past issue: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/issues/106
  • first weekly meeting with coach Camila
  • coordinating with coaches and mentors about the structure of upcoming Monday meetings
  • continuing with Vue.js tutorials
  • started on the issue linked to below

Thoughts:

It feels great to dig into some actual issues for our project and to see the structure for the next few months taking shape.

Links:

https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/issues/333


Back to Top

Day 7: July 10, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • worked on issue 333 and even made a commit! (see link below)
  • worked with coach Lora
  • showed progress on issue 333 to coach Kaja
  • meeting with our supervisor
  • read more about Angular.js
  • attended the RGSOC meetup

Thoughts:

Though we only wrote a few lines of code, it feels like we are really getting into the work of RGSoC!

Links:

https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/fix_issue_333


Back to Top

Day 8: July 11, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • meeting with main person maintaining the contacts app to discuss next steps in the migration
  • studied Vuex as it is one of the main dependencies for the contacts app
  • discussed the meeting and Vuex with coach Markus
  • went through the code of the new Vue branch which is the main one for the migration and formulated questions in preparation for the meeting

Thoughts:

The migration is within reach!

Links:

https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/


Back to Top

Day 9: July 12, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • no coaches visited us because it's Thursday
  • Jessica worked on integrating Vuex into her app
  • Arati set up a basic Vue app
  • more tutorials! (both for Vue and Vuex)
  • discussed conference options

Thoughts:

It was really helpful getting help from each other (well Jessica helped Arati!), particularly since no one is more familiar with the current experience of working through RGSOC than the other teammate.

Links:

https://medium.com/codingthesmartway-com-blog/vue-js-2-quickstart-tutorial-2017-246195cfbdd2


Back to Top

Day 10: July 13, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica is working on getting local storage for her app
  • she was also figuring out how to fetch and update the store
  • Arati started integrating Vuex into her app
  • she was also learning more about communicating events
  • meeting with coach Camila (about big picture planning and direction for next week)

Thoughts:

We would like to start working on issues on the new vue branch Monday or Tuesday but if not, studying the users management system would be a good alternative.


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 2: July 16, 2018

What we did this week:

  • on team updates

What was good

  • approach learning our own way but still share resources together
  • looking at possible issues in the old app together

What was not so good

  • completing tasks--> not having made the PR when we were done with the partial fix for #333
  • still facing the issue of spending too much time updating coaches when we meet

Blockers

  • waiting for roadmap about where to start

Coaches feedback*

  • didn't cover this point during the meeting

*solutions

  • will send PR to Markus to review so that we can have a completed PR
  • having more structured goals for ourselves
    • a bigger overview for the week that we write during/after the weekly meeting
    • then this gets expanded on during the taskmaking for the next day
  • when meeting coaches, we will give them 20 minutes of reading time to read our updates and then have a quick meeting to discuss (capped at 10m)
  • also keeping in mind that we can write to coaches ahead of time if we don't think we'll need time with them on a certain day

What we will do next week:

  • make the PR (#333)
  • have something to show Johnbart—> the first panel with the groups (the new contact button, all contacts group and not grouped section)

Link(s) to work/ commits/ PRs: Migration plan: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/issues/578


Back to Top

Day 11: July 16, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • continuation of VUEX research
  • agile meeting - see separate log
  • talked with App maintainer regarding road map
  • pulled and built blank vue.js contacts app
  • set weekly plan and what we want to achieve tomorrow.
  • made PR for partial fix for issue #333

Thoughts:

An exciting start to the week as we now have the base template and road map to start contributing on the migration.

Links:

https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/vue https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/issues/578

PR: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/579


Back to Top

Day 12: July 17, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • looked into Jest
  • pulled latest Vue branch and tried to get contacts app running
    • hit issue with PHP Parse error, could not resolve and have reached out to App maintainer for help
  • Arati worked within older version of app to see how to connect components.
  • looked through code base of Vue.js app
  • fixed our first blog post

Thoughts:

Slightly frustrating day as we are unsure how to fix the PHP parsing error. However good to be able to look at and work with the code.

Links:

https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/vue


Back to Top

Day 13: July 18, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica had to upgrade PHP to 7.2, Arati helped with this as she had a similar experience on her own computer.
  • Looked through code base for Vue Branch, started to make changes and list questions for meeting tomorrow with App Maintainer

Thoughts:

It was a little confusing with the PHP upgrade as I had ran the commands but with no effect. Luckily our coach Victor was on hand to help and explain a little more to the set up!


Back to Top

Day 14: July 19, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • We continued looking through how the App maintainer had built the initial code
  • Met with the app Maintainer to go over initial questions
  • Talked with our temporary supervisor for the week Vaishali who is in the forest hoping to learn how to catch snakes for safe removal.

Thoughts:

We on one hand feel excited to have the code base at our finger tips and on the other feel we have a lot to learn.


Back to Top

Day 15: July 20, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Continued to explore the code base and its logic.
  • Had screen sharing session with App maintainer to go through work flow and build a component with him.
  • Had our lovely coach Camila with us for moral support.

Thoughts:

It was great to have the shared screen session with the App maintainer so that we could understand exactly what he was talking about. We watched him build a component and talked about our work flow.


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 2: July 23, 2018

What we did this week:

  • made a PR for our issue last week and had it merged
  • made weekly plan
  • initial meeting with App maintainer regarding road map
  • updated PHP on Jessica machine
  • looked into testing with Jest
  • spoke with App maintainer about the project and had live coding session
  • learnt the word for popcorn in portuguese

What was good

  • live coding session with App maintainer to have full example how to proceed
  • nice getting help from Victor with PHP
  • learned about forking repos & keeping them updated.
  • better organised how to run Agile meeting - key take away (Prep before hand)
  • was good to go through code base ourselves and understand some parts

What was not so good

  • was tough to understand code base without support from App maintainer as some parts were misleading
  • blocking issue with PHP (when to ask for help and what to do when no coaches)
  • forking took time

Blockers

  • waiting for call with App maintainer
  • problem with PHP version lost us a lot of time! Initially figuring it out and then trying to fix it.

Coaches feedback*

  • It’s totally fine to have some days with no coach and may be preferable at points.

*solutions

  • have a file (troll/ mark down/ day / week / =>log) with useful code snippets / tips / best practices / solutions to issues encountered
  • can email coaches if urgent (as not always checking Riot)

What we will do next week*

  • start to work on the settings menu in the App Navigation
  • Pair programme to get going and then split up components and work on Base UI
  • move on to functionality when Base UI is done but also come together to discuss progress (What was difficult / what was not)
  • have another session with App Maintainer to show him our initial progress and make sure we are on the same page.
  • clear up mentors role and how App maintainer fits in (check with Neta, get him attached on the teams app)

Link(s) to work/ commits/ PRs: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/579 https://github.com/team-popcorn/contacts/tree/vue

Our first RGSoC blog was published! https://railsgirlssummerofcode.org/blog/2018-07-23-welcome-to-team-popcorn


Back to Top

Day 16: July 23, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Had a very useful weekly meeting with coaches Kaja, Camila and Lora.
  • Started building the UI based on the code we had gone through during the meeting with the main Contacts maintainer last week, particularly addressBook.vue, but we also added new components (contactImport.vue and sortContacts.vue).
  • Had a meeting just the two of us to go over code that Jessica had written in the time before our core hours.
  • Also created issues together to track the tasks ahead.

Thoughts:

There is a definite sense that we are getting into a work rhythm!


Back to Top

Day 17: July 24, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • We had a meeting with the main contacts maintainer.
  • We split the work to do for setting up the base UI--(Jessica will do sortContacts and shareAddressBook and Arati will do importContacts and addAddressBook).
  • We started on our individual sections.
  • Had a talk with our coach Lora about Vue tutorials and conferences.

Thoughts: It's been so helpful having regular meetings with the main contacts maintainer and getting detailed insight into how he wants to do the migration.


Back to Top

Day 18: July 25, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • We had a meeting with the main contacts maintainer--the focus was how he wanted to create the CSS classes for the new app.
  • We had a meeting with our supervisor Neta, in person this time!
  • We learned more about the multiselect library for Vue.js and how to implement it.
  • We made a proper start of our individual sections regarding the UI.
  • We have learned that our coaches wear a lot of grey and eat a lot of pizza ;)

Thoughts: Now that we have very definite sections that we are working on and have established a regular line of communication with the main app maintainer, our work time feels shorter than ever!


Back to Top

Day 19: July 26, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Focused on the sharee component for Jessica, hardcoding the contacts to get the positioning of the names and icons right to begin with.
  • Focused on the importContacts app for Arati and how to display the correct addressbook names and get closer to the final styling.
  • Learned more about the multiselect library and the users management portion of the server app while trying to reproduce the multiselect for the importContacts and sortContacts components.
  • We were with our coach Camila today.

Thoughts: The settings section of the first panel is really starting to look like something!


Back to Top

Day 20: July 27, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica created the popover menu for the settings section and was adjusting the multi-select for shareAddressBook.
  • Arati fixed the display of the two button for importContacts and started looking at positioning the icon correctly as well.
  • Finalised a date for a gathering of coaches, mentors and supervisor of Team Popcorn in mid-August.
  • Jessica did a mini intro of flex for Arati. She is really a fantastic teammate and teacher!

Thoughts: It's hard to believe the UI of the setting sections is almost finished which means the UI for the first panel is almost done which means one down, two to go!


Back to Top

Agile 4

What we did this week:

What was good

  • making progress about contributing to the actual repository
  • meetings with John
  • seeing progress on problems we encounter whether in coding or facilitating coding
  • getting help from Jessica about CSS flex

What was not so good

  • related to blockers (below)

Blockers

  • issues with juggling the different repositories (Jessica and Arati's local repositories and then the two remote ones)
  • technical issues with the conference room screen as well as how long it takes to get set up due to issues with getting a working screen for our individual work

Coaches feedback*

  • we discussed carrying out personalised workshops on a variety of topics of interest and began creating a calendar for that.
  • it's great to have everyone contributing in their own way and letting us benefit from their individual strengths
  • we discussed frequency of question asking and if there are ever situations when it's worth

*solutions

  • We sat down and created a process to follow for updating our work in terms of when to pull the origin and when to pull the upstream branches.
  • we can ask Kaja or Victor for help to get the screens working.
  • we can ask questions even if we are not sure if the coaches will have an answer--discussing can help to unblock
  • another way to get feedback (other than asking questions) is to ask for a coach to review something after you're done.

Back to Top

Day 21: July 30, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Went over protocol for version control and making sure our fork is up to date with the upstream
  • Looked at new code from App maintainer
  • Continued working on our own components UI and looked at functionality
  • Had agile meeting see separate log
  • Reached out to coaches regarding knowledge sharing sessions and suggested dates

Thoughts It was great talking with our coaches about our approach and concerns. Also recieving some feedback from them was incredibly valuable.

Link(s) to work: https://github.com/team-popcorn/contacts


Back to Top

Day 22: July 31, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • continued with our components, we have started to look at functionailty
  • Had a meeting with the App maintainer and discussed our progress (Thankfully we are going in the right direction!)
  • Got more familiar with CSS
  • Also looked at comments from App maintainer on our recent commits

Thoughts We are having some problems when trying to do screen sharing with our App Maintainer(he is in France) this is fairly frustrating and meant we had to cut our meeting short today. We are hoping our coaches at Absolventa will be able to help us.


Back to Top

Day 23: August 1, 2018

It's month 2 already of RGSoC!Time flies when your coding! <3

Today's Progress:

  • continued with our components, and their functionality
  • Learnt more about Vue Multiselect properties
  • Had a impromptu knowledge share session with our coach Markus on BEVM and Mixins

Thoughts Great to spend some time focused on learning a structuring system for SCSS, even the other developers here decided to join in. Next week Markus will do a knowledge share workshop on Promises, Callbacks and Async Await!


Back to Top

Day 24: August 2, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Got the Sort Contacts function working
  • Started to refractor CSS following BEVM based on the information from Markus yesterday
  • Had a knowledge share session with Victor about Docker (see link below)

Thoughts: This was our first knowledge share sessions and it was fantastic. Victor did outstanding work explaining us Docker, how to set it up for projects and gave us lots of useful tips. Feel free to read our notes in the link below if you would like to know more.

Links https://github.com/team-popcorn/RGSoC2018/blob/master/docker-knowledge-share.md


Back to Top

Day 25: August 3, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Arati worked on the add contact input UI, in particular the border when hovered over and went through her code with our coach Victor
  • Jessica worked on the delete Sharee and edit Sharee's writeable permissions as well as the UI for possible sharees

Thoughts:

A solid day of heads down coding! It was a nice way to finish the week :) We both feel we have learnt a lot of valuable additions this week with our knowledge share session and learning about BEVM. Roll on Monday :)


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 5: August 6, 2018

What we did this week:

  • Continued on Base UI
  • Sort Contacts function, with local storage
  • Add/ remove/ change edit permission for sharee in Addressbook
  • Impromptu mini knowledge share about BEVM
  • Knowledge share about Docker

What was good

  • Talking with coaches about experience
  • Knowledge share session!
  • Got permission to plug into ethernet cable during meetings with App maintainer
  • See how you can effect things with Dev tools, modifying and saving to code base
  • Learning about structuring CSS
  • Seeing what we like in programming

What was not so good

  • Frustrating to cut short our meeting with App Maintainer because of the Wifi situation, hopefully this is now finally fixed!
  • Frustration with CSS and feeling stuck
  • Feeling like code written is not tight or concise
  • Arati had to move which took energy & time away from her
  • Feeling a little behind and pressure that we are failing expectations

Blockers

  • Some missing knowledge around CSS
  • Time spent messaging, organising, contacting people
  • Feeling tired and in need of break
  • Having very high expectations of our selves and frustration with not meeting it

Coaches feedback

  • Informing coaches about situation with workloads and expectations
  • Big thanks for supporting us!

solutions

What we will do next week

  • Meet with Bart and update him on our progress
  • Talk about actions and mutations
  • Aim to have functions for settings section roughed out
  • Talk about testing with App Maintainer
  • Do a refractor of code with coaches, make time to sit with them

Back to Top

Day 26: August 6, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on the action to mutate the state—writability of the address book shares (including deleting them).
  • Arati switched from CSS issues to the functionality of the addAddressBook component, first step was finding a way to access the new address book name in the addAddressBook method.
  • Long, in-depth weekly meeting with coaches Kaja and Victor.

Thoughts:

It was really helpful to talk shop with our coaches during the Agile meeting--got to learn about everything from resources to helpful mindsets.


Back to Top

Day 27: August 7, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica was working on the search input and has to start all over again as a result of our meeting today with the main maintainer of the Contacts app .
  • Arati started applying feedback that the main maintainer of the Contacts app had left on comments about the styling of the importContacts component (in particular regarding the borders of the two buttons).
  • We had a long meeting with the main maintainer of the Contacts app and discussed everything from how to structure our CSS to using actions vs mutations and more specific topics about issues we are working on.
  • We are still both feeling pretty sleep deprived from weekend busyness...

Thoughts:

Our coaches and mentors are so helpful to talk to, and not just about code!


Back to Top

Day 28: August 8, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • It's a big day. We are merging our forked branch with the main vue branch in the nextcloud contacts repo! Moving forward we will be working directly in that repo (with smaller branches).
  • For this purpose, Jessica was adding comments to the sections that she was working on and she also made the PR.
  • The borders for the import section are looking sharp thanks to our mentor's suggestions! Related to this section, Arati replaced some selectors in the section to hopefully make the CSS neater.
  • We had our weekly meeting with supervisor Neta.

Thoughts:

We are just one week away from the half-way mark but also only a week away from the one month mark--time has a strange way of bending during RGSOC.


Back to Top

Day 29: August 9, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica was working on the first version of share contacts version using axios.
  • Arati was working on setting up the functionality for importContacts--in particular working with FileReader and parsing of VCF files.

Thoughts:

A great day of intense coding with no meetings (nothing against meetings but getting a solid chunk of coding time feels like such a luxury).


Back to Top

Day 30: August 10, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked on refractoring the function for the asyncFind when searching for a user or group to share the chosen addressbook with. Used axios all function to return all promises and regex with text.split(substr) to split out the matching parts to allow for separate styling. Also looked at styling for this element.
  • Arati: Fixed code based on our mentor's feedback. Created a new action called commitContactsFromImport. Not sure yet if the new action works or not. Imported contacts don't appear within the specified address book but haven't yet checked if it's because of missing functionality in another component...
  • Had a nice Team Popcorn discussion about job hunting in tech.

Thoughts:

Our RGSOC time feels more efficient now that certain routines are starting to take shape.


Back to Top

Day 31: August 13, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Arati was ill today so took the day off
  • Jessica got a working version of the shareAddressbook function running, and also noticed & fixed a bug in her removeSharee function :)
  • Jessica is also working on a lightening talk for the upcoming Nextcloud conference which takes place in Berlin in two weeks
  • We have been discussing naming conventions for our components and looking at the vue style guide. We have now renamed our components accordingly

Thoughts:

I missed having Arati in the office and hope she feels better soon. It was quite fiddly getting the multi-select hooked up to the shareAddressbook function but very satisfying to complete a working version. I still need to work on the styling and would like to see if I can refractor the code so it is a little cleaner.


Back to Top

Day 32: August 13, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on refactoring and cleaning up the code she was working on and looked at styling for the share addressbook section
  • Arati was back in today and caught back up with messages
  • We had our coach Lora in today for our second knowledge share sessions. She was giving us tips on working with Dev tools

Thoughts

Tomorrow we have our weekly meeting with the App maintainer to discuss structuring our CSS and next steps so it has been good to get some solid coding done to be able to present to him.

Link(s) to work:


Back to Top

Day 33: August 14, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Arati worked on refractoring her code on the Add Addressbook using the comments the App maintainer gave on the Github commits
  • Jessica also did some refractoring based on the App Maintainers comments and started on the Popover menu
  • We had a meeting with our coach Markus and the App mainainer to talk about intergrating BEVM in our SCSS and also had a mini code along session with Markus to show us in more detail how to get started.

Thoughts It was a good session with the App maintainer today discussing our naming conventions and folder structuring as well as learning more about BEVM. We have also been enjoying refactoring our code and learning new tips as we go!


Back to Top

Day 34: August 15, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica refactored her code based on the App Maintainers comments but got a little stuck and frustrated - she is sure it will be clearer come Monday XD
  • Arati started a new branch for when contacts are loading and also combined two functions to make her code more efficient.

Thoughts We are excited to have our coaches over to have a mid-summer-of-code celebration!


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 6: August 20, 2018

What we did this week:

  • Continued on our components
  • Had a meeting with Bart and Markus about naming and structuring
  • Had a social meet up
  • Docker knowledge share session

What was good

  • Social meetup :)
  • Knowledge share session
  • Working on our own branches on the actually repo
  • PR for code reviews
  • seeing different opinions being discussed
  • Critical thinking and forming our own opinions
  • That we can have impact, being asked our opinions
  • Get detailed feedback on commits
  • Having Bart available a lot to talk to online
  • hearing all the coaches thoughts on the summer so far

What was not so good

  • Missed Arati when she was absent
  • Feeling overwhelmed with size of task ahead, tasks feel open ended
  • Being perfectionist, never feeling “done”

Blockers

  • see above

Coaches feedback*

  • Your awesome :)
  • great to see people in a social context

*solutions

  • setting deadlines (perhaps for each other)
  • break tasks up

What we will do next week*

  • Nextcloud conference
  • meet Bart in person to discuss progress
  • meet with Jan about Styling and CSS

Back to Top

Day 35: August 20, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica continued working on the comments from the app maintainer for her PR for share components.
  • Monthly meeting with so many of our coaches and the main maintainer for the contacts app and Neta.
  • Arati continued with implementing the loading page for when contacts are imported.

Thoughts It was impressive seeing so many of our coaches and mentors gathered together for the call.


Back to Top

Day 36: August 21, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Added debounce function for requests for Asynchronous Multiselect. Fixed styling for Multiselect when no query has been inputed. Fixed filter function so that share addressbook now works correctly.
  • Arati: set up a basic import screen and started researching how to show the progress of the import.

Thoughts We have been doing the RGSOC long enough to start having some perspective on helpful/unhelpful practices.


Back to Top

Day 37: August 22, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked through feedback for improving code from yesterday and starting setting up the development environment for working at the conference tomorrow.
  • Arati: Sat with coach Markus and went through ContactService from the old app to figure out how to show importing of contacts in the new app.

Thoughts It's interesting asking coaches about their first conference experience and imagining them as newbies!


Back to Top

Day 38: August 24, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • First day of Nextcloud conference!
  • Jessica: Trouble shooting Docker issues in preparation for the workshop.
  • Arati: Sat with App Maintainer and went through the creation of importState store.

Thoughts Talking in person with our mentor is so much better than screen sharing!


Back to Top

Day 39: August 27, 2018

This weekend we were at the Nextcloud Conference! It was a great opportunity to learn more about Nextcloud and meet other contributors ^^ Jessica gave a introductory workshop to contributing to Nextcloud workshop and a lighting talk on useful Git commands for contributing to Open source. You can watch her talk here and checkout the slides using the links below.

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on the Popover menu
  • Arati added functionality to import screen, fleshed out the parse VCF function and added real progress value for progress bar and contact name as it gets imported
  • We had our weekly agile meeting

Thoughts

It has been a great opportunity to reconnect with the whole Nextcloud community and refresh our passion and see the effect our work has! Today we were back in the office as they have an enterprise day but tomorrow we will go back to the Hack space so we can work more closely with the App maintainer!

Link(s) to work:

Lighting Talk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zKk2NwXiQu4&feature=youtu.be&t=4h58m22s Slides: https://speakerdeck.com/sleepypioneer/my-git-journey-to-contributing-to-nextcloud

Workshop Repo for contributing to Nextcloud https://github.com/sleepypioneer/ContributingToNextcloudIntroductoryWorkshop

Talk from last years RGSoC team Codeaholics! https://youtu.be/zKk2NwXiQu4?t=7h8m11s


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 7: August 27, 2018

What we did this week:

What was good

  • working through importStore in person with App Maintainer
  • meeting contributors at Nextcloud conf
  • getting a deeper understanding of what Nextcloud is from conference time
  • Docker experience from setting it up on own laptop
  • getting to see how Jessica works and being inspired to improve work habits based on that

What was not so good

  • exhausting weekend
  • felt disconnected from some of the talks that seemed very detailed and specific

Blockers

  • not using Vue dev tool
  • relying too much on search rather than looking through open tabs in VSC
  • started a new component before previous one was done because of not realising it wasn't finished (unclarity); not realising more structure would speed up progress
  • issues with Docker on Thursday
  • working on too many different issues in a single branch-—would have been better to cherry pick things out

Coaches feedback*

  • seeing Lora at the conference. We wish her much success in this new chapter of her life and are looking forward to seeing where it takes her!

*solutions

  • we will ask App Maintainer for a meeting with the very specific purpose of getting issues
  • to make it easier for him we could list out the specifications as we see them and ask him if the list is complete or not

What we will do next week*

  • Nextcloud conference
  • Tuesday mission: breaking things down into tasks
  • meet Jan and discuss styling (and accessibility)

Back to Top

Day 40: August 28, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Met with the App maintainer to discuss the roadmap for September and timeline before releasing Beta 1
  • Arati worked with the App maintainer to complete her import component and get it merged
  • Jessica had her share addressbook branch merged with the master vue branch and continued on the popovermenu
  • We both attended the open source diversity meetup 💚

Thoughts

It's been really awesome to start making a roadmap for the last month of RGSoC. It looks like we will release the Beta 1 of the app in our last week :) Hurrah!! 🎉


Back to Top

Day 41: August 29, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Today we were back at the Nextcloud conference Hackweek to continue working with the App maintainer.
  • Arati made a Pull request for vue-import-progress merged! Fixing importDestination so that the correct address book is imported to, displaying the name in the import screen
  • Jessica started working on the styling issues for the share addressbook
  • we also started to create issues as part of the roadmap for our last month of RGSoC

Thoughts

It's been really great to be able to work so close with the App Maintainer John and get in person help. Talking online can get confusing at time and this time together has been invaluable 💜


Back to Top

Day 42: August 30, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Today we were back at the Nextcloud conference Hackweek to continue working with the App maintainer.
  • We continued with our list of issues and went through some of the finer points of how the app works in terms of using the virtual DOM.

Thoughts

It was the last day of the conference and time to say bye to John our App maintainer and the other contributors. Still we look forward and hope to be invited to the next Nextcloud hackweek 💙


Back to Top

Day 43: August 31, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on the enable function in the popover menu as well as the rename function. (issue #614)
  • She also fixed the styling issues on share addressbook and requested feedback via PR #615 - partial fix for issue #600
  • Arati worked on updating her branch vue-new-addressbook so that it incorporates the changes she made with the App maintainer during the conference and continue with issue #605

Thoughts

Today we were back in the office at Absolventa, it was nice to catch up with our coaches there and swap conference stories (Kaja was at Euruko at the weekend) With the roadmap now in place and the deadline looming we have plenty to get on with! 😄


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 8: September 03, 2018

What we did this week:

  • attending the Nextcloud conference
  • met with App Maintainer in person
  • worked on problems we were having & merged
  • made roadmap and set dates for milestones
  • created issues and assigned them to our project

What was good

  • Working in person with App maintainer has been fantastic, not only helpful for our programming but also socially enjoyable
  • working more with Git and feeling more confident with it
  • Having concrete plan in bite size pieces (individual issues)
  • Satisfaction of having our work merged
  • This was also a direct result of breaking the work up in to smaller issues and being able to make more PR
  • feeling more comfortable & familiarity with the work flow

What was not so good

  • long week was tiring
  • feeling a bit of exhaustion
  • starting to feel the pressure of the looming deadline

Blockers

  • feeling slowed down by tiredness

solution

  • drink lots of water and take breaks
  • If not working productively on one issue try working or researching something else (switching focus)

What we will do next week*

  • Continue on our list of issues
  • Arati issue #605
  • Jessica issues #614 & #600
  • Plan for pair programming on Avatar issue (2hrs 4-6pm 25min slots with break half way through)
  • Friday this week

Back to Top

Day 44: September 03, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on the rename function in the popover menu for issue #600 and added a fix for issue #615 as per review.
  • Agile Meeting without coaches.
  • Arati worked on form validation with regex for issue 605 and design fixes.

Thoughts Tired!


Back to Top

Day 45: September 04, 2018

Today's Progress: Today Arati was out of the office to compensate for time spent at the Nextcloud conference.

  • I worked on my PR #618 for fixing issue #614 the popover menu. Close to a nice working solution 💪
  • I also joined the remote call with the other members of RGSoC 📞

Thoughts It was really nice to see and talk with Anna and some of the other RGSoC participants and share our experiences. I also got quite a bit of coding done today and managed to untangle in my mind how to work with the WebDav (still not completely but I understand it much better!) 🎉

Link(s) to work: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/618


Back to Top

Day 46: September 05, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Call with our supervisor.
  • Jessica: Added vue clipboard library to allow users to copy the addressbook url. Continued on popover menu in settings and adjusted as per app maintainer notes.
  • Arati: Made a PR for "add address book" issue (#605) and created a new branch for a new issue, "add close icon for importing" (#606).

Thoughts Troubleshooting with each other about issues we were working on was very enjoyable and helpful!


Back to Top

Day 47: September 06, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Pair programming--working on Avatar management (#603)
  • Jessica: Finished review points & closed PR #618.
  • Arati: Added close icon to import screen and working on making the screen disappear on click.

Thoughts Our first pair programming session was productive and we have a good roadmap set up for the duration of our work on the issue we started.


Back to Top

Day 48: September 07, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked on blog post, opened new branch for renaming of addressbook, made a couple of code reviews and looked at the datetime inputs.
  • Arati: Worked on blog post, figuring out conference workshops and general sign up process and my first code review!

Thoughts
Thinking back on the past few months while writing the blog post his a reminder of how far we have come and how intense this summer has been.


Back to Top

Day 49: September 10, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on moving the renaming input to the popover menu #622 and checks for readonly addressbooks #623.
  • Arati continued on her part of the blog post and started on a second code review!
  • We had our weekly agile meeting with coach Camila

Thoughts It's exciting and nerve racking to think we only have 3 weeks left after this one! 0.o Time has flown by and looking back while we write our blog posts we have achieved so much with the help and support of our coaches, supervisor and App Mantainer ❤️


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 9: September 10, 2018

What we did this week:

What was good

  • proper pair programming session
  • reviewing code, first official time for both of us!
  • conference ticket
  • less time for organisation/communication channels
  • more regular PRs and getting feedback that way, through the "official" channels
  • reflect on the summer via writing the blog post
  • remote meeting

What was not so good

  • tiredness at the start of the week
  • long time switching contexts, settling in

Blockers

  • blog post taking longer than desired
  • not being entirely clear on specifications weighs on the back of the mind and slows down progress

Coaches feedback*

  • Thanks to App Maintainer for asking for review. It's a great learning tool!

*solutions

  • show specifications upfront before starting to code and saying this is my understanding of it; another option is to just do it even if roughly/do a partial fix and wait for feedback and fix it if needed afterwards (this is possible with smaller issues)
  • don't overthink the blog post

What we will do next week*

  • finish blog post
  • more pair programming
  • address requests for changes on PR
  • a day away for each of us (plus coach absences)
  • try for a call with App Maintainer on Thursday, ask which issues HAVE to be fixed for the beta release and which ones would just be nice to have fixed
  • travel!

Back to Top

Day 50: September 11, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • We sat together and merged our work on the blog post and put it into mark down format ready for submission.
  • Jessica looked at the datetime branch, specifically looking for a solution for displaying the datepicker result. She also created a branch for issue #604 (Avatars in list).
  • Arati started fixing the changes requested for her latest PR.

Thoughts It was fun to go through our personal highlights and reminisce about the summer so far ^^

Link(s) to work:
https://github.com/orgs/nextcloud/projects/11


Back to Top

Day 51: September 12, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Arati was out of the office today
  • Jessica worked partly on the blog post, checked the App Mantainers work on the Date picker and corrected her work on the avatar in the list. I also had a call with our coach Markus to update him to what we have been doing.

Thoughts Again another day thinking about what we have achieved and how little time is left 😮 Today I spent more time reading code and figuring out how it works than I did writing code, which felt refreshingly good to do!


Back to Top

Day 52: September 13, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica worked on the loading states for the addressbook popovermenu functions
  • We completed our blog post and made the PR to the Summer of Code Repo
  • We continued on our pair programming issue #603

Thoughts It was nice to get back to our pair programming issue and continue looking at how we get the file input and save it in the contac. For this week and next week we decided to ask our families for our update titles words. Today is from Jessica's brother who just had a little boy called Jove so his response is quite topical. Tomorrow Jessica will be out of the office as she will go visit her new nephew in the UK :)

Link(s) to work: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/issues/603


Back to Top

Day 53: September 14, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica is in a land far far away enjoying family time.
  • Arati was preparing for attending GoTo conference in October 🚀 and fixed changes requested for her latest PR

Thoughts RGSOC has given us a lot and I feel incredibly privileged to have the program's support for getting me a ticket to attend an exciting conference like GoTo!


Back to Top

Agile Meeting 10: September 17, 2018

What we did this week:

  • Pair programmed on our avatar management
  • Completed the blog for the end of summer
  • Code reviews
  • Arati got a ticket to GoTo and researched the conference
  • Arati fixed requests from her PR
  • Continued working on components

What was good

  • News about the conference ticket for Arati! Also being supported by Neta and Ramon to ensure she will get the most from the event
  • Pair programming
  • Having Jessica’s family give us the three words for the updates title, Arati’s will give them for this week
  • Having our work included in the Nextcloud due components NPM package :)
  • Reminiscing about the summer and what we’ve achieved

What was not so good

  • Blog post took a long time
  • Missing our appointment with supervisor Neta - we got carried away pair programming :(

Blockers

  • Feeling drained and therefore a little less focused and less energetic for Arati
  • Waiting for cdav and webdav

*solutions

  • When we are pair programming have Riot open
  • Set an alarm on our phones/ calendar for meetings
  • Make sure to take breaks
  • Talk with work about switching some hours

What we will do next week*

  • Talk with App maintainer John about what to focus on this week
  • Set goals to complete our tasks for Beta Release one
  • Have a second meeting at the end of the week to talk about goals for next week

Back to Top

Day 54: September 17, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked on the loading state for the elements in the popover menu and added logic for renaming section when popover menu has been closed. #614
  • Arati: Worked on more (newly requested) fixes to my latest PR and read more about the GoTo schedule and various talks

Thoughts It was really nice to have a chat with App Maintainer again--it has been too long!


Back to Top

Day 55: September 18, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked on the avatar management preview and options menu.
  • Arati: Two merges in one day! Admittedly one was just a tiny little fix but that's still a record for me.

Thoughts It's great having App Maintainer and Jessica on riot to ask for help from or just to shoot the breeze with.


Back to Top

Day 56: September 19, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Pair programming! With lots of help from App Maintainer, we are now able to upload a photo for the icon and have it show up.

Thoughts Asking detailed questions helps keep a good coding flow going.


Back to Top

Day 57: September 20, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Worked through adding the preview screen to Avatar management, the html is there so now it is a matter of styling and adding in the functions for the menu
  • Looked at the cdav, which is now been added but is not yet complete, started to understand how it worked and how to implement it

Thoughts Today was a little slower in coding and I spent more time reading through the App maintainers code to see how to use. I also encountered some buggy parts when trying to implement the preview screen where I had to rerun make watch-js to get the updated version working.

Link(s) to work: Preview Screen: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/vue-avatar-management-preview CDAV : https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/632/files https://github.com/nextcloud/cdav-library/blob/develop/src/models/addressBook.js


Back to Top

Day 58: September 21, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • Jessica: Worked on webdav for popover menu in settings and made PR for avatars in list.
  • Arati: microscopic PR for a tooltip related issue--it's really interesting taking a closer look at how the components for the contact details properties have been built.

Thoughts We had another great meeting with App Maintainer where we primarily discussed cdav lib and caramel!


Back to Top

Day 59: September 24, 2018

Today's Progress: -Arati worked on the property hint tooltip-adding to the icon not the component -Jessica worked on putting together slides for our end of RGSoC presentation

  • We had our last team meeting and presented our retrospective of what we have achieved and thanked those who had helped us :)

Thoughts It was great to have the chance to thank all those involved and go through what we have achieved in the last 3 months!


Back to Top

Day 60: September 25, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • We split what we were pair programming on into two as Jessica is ill and didn't want to infect Arati while also saving her voice. Therefore Arati is working on the methods for the Avatar management and Jessica is working on the styling.
  • Jessica also worked on the avatars in list and made quick changes on her cdav branch for the addressbook settings popover menu

Thoughts Nice to go over how to approach an issue together even if we didn't then code together. Hoping my head is clearer tomorrow and my throat is better!

Links to work https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/639 https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/pull/641 https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/vue-avatar-management


Back to Top

Day 61: September 26, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • we both worked on the Avatar management and made good lee way on it
  • we had a super knowledge share session with our coach Markus (see our notes here)

Thoughts Was really awesome to go through testing with Markus and have a better understanding of how it works and how to implement it in our workflow.

Link(s) to work: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts/tree/vue-avatar-management


Back to Top

Day 62: September 27, 2018

Today's Progress:

  • we both continued a little on the Avatar management.. almost done 🎉
  • we had an amazing knowledge share session with our coach Camila (see her notes here)

Thoughts Camila & Jos came today and brought us actual popcorn ❤️ we then had our workshop and chatted with Jan about companies and organisation. It felt like it brought the summer full circle as we started at Jos & Camila's place installing Nextcloud, getting set up to be able to contribute. An incredible day to mark the second to last day of summer of code.

Popcorn!


Back to Top

Day 63: September 28, 2018

🎉 FINAL DAY! 🎉

Today's Progress:

  • We finished the avatar management branch and merged it
  • We had a call with App Maintainer John to make sure everything was ready for the Beta Release
  • We listed what was missing in this release and therefore what is needed for the next one
  • App maintainer John will make the Beta release for Contacts 🎉 🎉 🎉
  • We made our final log entries
  • We cleaned the laptops Absolventa had loaned us ready for being returned
  • Said our final goodbyes to the team here 😊

Thoughts:

It's the end of the Summer of Code and what a rollercoaster it has been! We have both learnt so much and had so much support from the whole team. We are both excited to take this next step and see what comes next while knowing we will keep this experience close to our hearts for a long time to come 💚.

We want to extend a huge thanks to all our coaches, App Maintainer John, our supervisor, our coaching company Absolventa, the Nextcloud community (especially Jos, Jan, Xheni, and Jona) and also to each other. We didn't know one another before applying for the summer of code and it has been great getting to know each other, learn from one another and create together 😊.

Congratulations to all the other teams for completing their summers of code also we are so happy to be part of the community with you all! 🎉

Link: See our work here: https://github.com/nextcloud/contacts


Back to Top